README.md, before:

# Karvdash

Karvdash (Kubernetes CARV dashboard) is a dashboard service for Kubernetes. It supplies the landing page for working on a Kubernetes cluster, manages users, launches notebooks, and wires up relevant storage to the appropriate paths inside running containers.

Check out the user guide and API documentation in `docs`.

## Running locally

To start working on Karvdash, you need a local Kubernetes environment, like Docker Desktop for macOS, with a running ingress controller and a local Docker registry. Check in the `kubernetes/docker-desktop` folder for help on how to deploy these.

Then, create the Python environment:
```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Create default directories for local, remote, and shared data:
```
mkdir local
mkdir remote
mkdir shared
```

Prepare the application:
```
./manage.py migrate
./manage.py createadmin --noinput --username admin --password admin --email admin@example.com --preserve
```

And start it:
```
./manage.py runserver
```

Point your browser to http://localtest.me:8000 and login as "admin".

## Running in Docker

Edit the `Dockerfile` and set the version of `kubectl` to match your Kubernetes cluster.

Build the image:
```
docker build -t karvdash:1.4 .
docker tag karvdash:1.4 karvdash:latest
```

Run it:
```
docker run -d --rm --name karvdash \
    --env KARVDASH_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD,destination=/db \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD/local,destination=/local \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD/remote,destination=/remote \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD/shared,destination=/shared \
    -p 80:80/tcp \
    karvdash:latest
```

The following variables can be set:

| Variable                             | Description                                                                           |
|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DJANGO_SECRET`                      | Secret for Django. Use a random string of 50 characters.                              |
| `DJANGO_DEBUG`                       | Set to anything to enable, empty to disable (default is enabled).                     |
| `KARVDASH_ADMIN_PASSWORD`            | The default admin password (default is "admin").                                      |
| `KARVDASH_DASHBOARD_TITLE`           | The title of the dashboard (default is "Dashboard").                                  |
| `KARVDASH_DASHBOARD_THEME`           | The theme of the dashboard. Choose between "evolve" and "CARV" (default is "evolve"). |
| `KARVDASH_INGRESS_DOMAIN`            | The domain used by the service (default is "localtest.me").                           |
| `KARVDASH_SERVICE_REDIRECT_SSL`      | Set to anything to redirect all services to SSL (default is disabled).                |
| `KARVDASH_DOCKER_REGISTRY`           | The URL of the Docker registry (default is "http://127.0.0.1:5000").                  |
| `KARVDASH_DOCKER_REGISTRY_NO_VERIFY` | Set to anything to skip Docker registry SSL verification (default is to verify).      |
| `KARVDASH_API_BASE_URL`              | The URL used for internal API calls (default is "http://karvdash.default.svc/api").   |
| `KARVDASH_LOCAL_HOST_DIR`            | The host path for the local data domain.                                              |
| `KARVDASH_REMOTE_HOST_DIR`           | The host path for the remote data domain.                                             |
| `KARVDASH_SHARED_HOST_DIR`           | The host path for the shared data domain.                                             |

## Run in Kubernetes

Deployment instructions are in the `kubernetes` folder, both for Docker Desktop and bare metal clusters.

Commit message:

Option to report an issue

README.md, after:

# Karvdash

Karvdash (Kubernetes CARV dashboard) is a dashboard service for Kubernetes. It supplies the landing page for working on a Kubernetes cluster, manages users, launches notebooks, and wires up relevant storage to the appropriate paths inside running containers.

Check out the user guide and API documentation in `docs`.

## Running locally

To start working on Karvdash, you need a local Kubernetes environment, like Docker Desktop for macOS, with a running ingress controller and a local Docker registry. Check in the `kubernetes/docker-desktop` folder for help on how to deploy these.

Then, create the Python environment:
```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Create default directories for local, remote, and shared data:
```
mkdir local
mkdir remote
mkdir shared
```

Prepare the application:
```
./manage.py migrate
./manage.py createadmin --noinput --username admin --password admin --email admin@example.com --preserve
```

And start it:
```
./manage.py runserver
```

Point your browser to http://localtest.me:8000 and login as "admin".

## Running in Docker

Edit the `Dockerfile` and set the version of `kubectl` to match your Kubernetes cluster.

Build the image:
```
docker build -t karvdash:1.4 .
docker tag karvdash:1.4 karvdash:latest
```

Run it:
```
docker run -d --rm --name karvdash \
    --env KARVDASH_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD,destination=/db \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD/local,destination=/local \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD/remote,destination=/remote \
    --mount type=bind,source=$PWD/shared,destination=/shared \
    -p 80:80/tcp \
    karvdash:latest
```

The following variables can be set:

| Variable                             | Description                                                                           |
|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DJANGO_SECRET`                      | Secret for Django. Use a random string of 50 characters.                              |
| `DJANGO_DEBUG`                       | Set to anything to enable, empty to disable (default is enabled).                     |
| `KARVDASH_ADMIN_PASSWORD`            | The default admin password (default is "admin").                                      |
| `KARVDASH_DASHBOARD_TITLE`           | The title of the dashboard (default is "Dashboard").                                  |
| `KARVDASH_DASHBOARD_THEME`           | The theme of the dashboard. Choose between "evolve" and "CARV" (default is "evolve"). |
| `KARVDASH_ISSUES_URL`                | If set, an option to "Report an issue" is shown in the user menu.                     |
| `KARVDASH_INGRESS_DOMAIN`            | The domain used by the service (default is "localtest.me").                           |
| `KARVDASH_SERVICE_REDIRECT_SSL`      | Set to anything to redirect all services to SSL (default is disabled).                |
| `KARVDASH_DOCKER_REGISTRY`           | The URL of the Docker registry (default is "http://127.0.0.1:5000").                  |
| `KARVDASH_DOCKER_REGISTRY_NO_VERIFY` | Set to anything to skip Docker registry SSL verification (default is to verify).      |
| `KARVDASH_API_BASE_URL`              | The URL used for internal API calls (default is "http://karvdash.default.svc/api").   |
| `KARVDASH_LOCAL_HOST_DIR`            | The host path for the local data domain.                                              |
| `KARVDASH_REMOTE_HOST_DIR`           | The host path for the remote data domain.                                             |
| `KARVDASH_SHARED_HOST_DIR`           | The host path for the shared data domain.                                             |

## Run in Kubernetes

Deployment instructions are in the `kubernetes` folder, both for Docker Desktop and bare metal clusters.
